# The Odin Project: Simple Calculator

This project was the perfect way to review and implement everything that I have learned from the foundation classes. I got to make use of tools such as flexbox and event listeners to create a nice looking interface and to ensure it was interactable with through keyboard and mouse. I also learned how to use regular expressions, and how to add simple animations and transform elements using css.

The greatest difficulty for me lied in trying to figure out what to do in non-default operations. For example, I wasn't fully aware of how a calculator behaved when the equals button is clicked directly after an operations button, so I had to research what to do with exceptions like that. Considering every possible non-default combo of buttons was a tough challenge and took up the majority of the time spent on the project. I found that drawing up a flow chart of every possible button combination really helped in untangling this logic.

Deciding on a character limit for the operation results shown on the screen and implementing this limit was also a small struggle. The first few iterations of the checks I wanted to and tried to code were too complex. For instance, I wanted to convert numbers that were too large into exponential notation, but then I also wanted to check that the exponential notation didn't have too many decimal places as that could also lead to over 12 characters on the screen. In the end I decided that that was too complicated and I decided to just have six fixed decimal places in the exponential notation and to remove any trailing zeros using regex.

Looking back on my implementation and running my project through chatGPT, I definitely see areas for improvement. I'm still not too confident about using objects so I avoided using them here, but ideally using this data structure to store global variables would've probably been better and more efficient if this project were to grow larger by adding more functionalities. Implementing functions for handling events for each button type instead of using switch-case statements would have also been better, and more elegant when I later decided to add keyboard support. ChatGPT also recommended that I use data-* attributes in my css instead of id and class, but as I haven't learned about them yet and I expect that it would be one of the next topics in advanced css, I decided to avoid them for now. Learning to use them would definitely be a potential area of improvement though!

Overall, I had a lot of fun doing this project and definitely learned a lot! There were some frustrating moments, but that meant that the feeling of satisfaction was even higher when I finally managed to get certain functionalities to work. I am now really looking forward to starting the next phase of my Odin Project journey!